if we build a platform 190 to 250 miles
high it's the altitude of the ISS above
earth and throw a stone from there it
will fall down just the same way it
falls down from your balcony you might
have noticed that there are no solar
winds on our planet for that you can
thank the Earth's nickel iron core
coupled with the planets fast rotational
speed these two factors combined create
a strong protective magnetic field the
Great Red Spot on Jupiter is a
gargantuan storm that's been raging for
at least 400 years now back when it was
first found it was three times the size
of our whole planet scientists believe
there's trillions upon trillions of
light years of space beyond the edge of
the observable universe the largest
asteroid in the solar system is called
Vesta and it's so big that it sometimes
even called a dwarf planet Venus spins
at its own unhurried pace a full
rotation takes 243 Earth days and it
takes the planet a bit less than 225
Earth days to go all the way around the
Sun it means a day on Venus is longer
than a year a full NASA space suit costs
an unbelievable 12 million dollars yeah
I can believe that 70% of this hefty sum
is for the control module and backpack
at first sight the moon seems to be as
large as the Sun but it's just an
illusion the star is 400 times bigger
than the earth satellite it's also 400
times farther from us than the moon
that's why these space bodies look as if
they're of the same size all of the
planets of the solar system would fit
between Earth and the moon with some
space to spare there are huge
temperature fluctuations on a moan
close to the satellites equator the
temperature rises from minus 279 degrees
at night to 260 degrees in the afternoon
Mars has two moons Phobos and Deimos in
the next 30 to 50,000,000 years Mars
gravitational forces will tear Phobos
apart and it will likely result in the
formation of a ring around the planet I
won't be around them Saturn's rings are
very thin compared to its size if you
had a scale model of the planet that was
three feet wide the Rings would be
10,000 times thinner than a razor blade
Venus could have had a pleasant stable
climate for billions of years before
something went wrong astronomers did
thorough research and build a model of a
virtualized Venus like world
this model demonstrated that for most of
its history the hot planet had oceans
with liquid water adequate temperatures
and stable tectonic plates astronauts
tasted the first food grown and
harvested in space in 2015 it was red
romaine lettuce that had been growing in
a special chamber for 15 months the fact
that in the near future people might not
need to bring huge amounts of food to
space means we can explore further and
longer without running out of supplies
the universe is thought to be 13.7
billion years old
but it's constantly expanding and now
it's probably about 93 billion light
years in diameter but that's only what
we can observe once a star becomes too
old and massive about four to eight
times bigger than our Sun it doesn't
have any more fuel left that's why all
the reactions in its core stopped the
Stars outer layers instantly try to
collapse inward but they bounced off the
core which remains incredibly dense
that's when everything but the Stars
core explodes in a fiery supernova even
though the climate of Venus changed so
dramatically and the planet seems to be
totally uninhabitable scientists don't
deny that
one day the hot planet could be
transformed again Venus has more
volcanoes than any other planet in the
solar system
astronomers have already discovered up
to 1600 on the surface but there might
be others too small for people to see
most of these volcanoes aren't active
anymore but there are some that could
still be bubbling a day on Uranus last
17 hours 14 minutes and 24 seconds but
get this the planet has a tilt of around
98 degrees and that makes a season on
the gas giant last 21 earth years if
there was no gravity in space the earth
wouldn't be able to hold the moon near
itself all the planets and stars would
just fly across the universe freely bump
into each other and well it would
probably end things really quickly
gravity can be tiny but never absent
this is one of the laws
why don't astronauts just walk on the
floor of ISS as we do on earth well the
reason for it is that when in orbit they
are in a state of constant freefall to
earth and the ISS itself is also falling
to earth all the time in 2011
astronomers discovered an enormous water
reservoir simply floating in space
around a supermassive black hole called
a quasar floating water vapors have been
found throughout the universe but they
aren't that common this particular
reservoir holds around 140 trillion
times the amount of water in Earth's
oceans if a body is far enough from a
space object say a spaceship flying to
Mars from Earth the gravity of the space
object will be too small and their
mutual attraction will roughly balance
each other but no matter how far the
bodies get from each other their mutual
attraction never equals zero the
farthest we can see into space today is
thirteen point two billion light years
it took the hubble space telescope ten
years to make a single image that far
our planets inner core is as hot as a
Sun surface yeah it's mostly solid iron
and nickel surrounded by superhot liquid
and heated up to ten thousand eight
hundred degrees Fahrenheit
comets are thought to come to the solar
system from the Oort cloud a theoretical
asteroid field that's about 2,000 times
as far from us as the Sun you can see
solar eclipses because even though the
moon is 400 times smaller than the Sun
it's also 400 times closer to Earth so
it's perfectly capable of obscuring the
star but in 50 million years I won't be
around then the moon won't be able to
block the Sun completely because of the
satellites changing orbit Saturn has a
moon called pan and it looks like a
ravioli it's only 20 miles across and
works as a shepherd to the matter that
makes up Saturn's rings the moon clears
an empty space between the Rings known
as the N key gap and keeps it free from
ring particles the highest mountain in
the solar system is olympus mons on Mars
it's three times as high as Mount
Everest the Earth's highest mountain
above sea level if you were standing on
top of Olympus Mons
you wouldn't understand you were
standing on a mountain its slopes would
be hidden by the planet's curvature
there are more than 120 million pieces
of junk orbiting Earth sadly all this
space trash was left by us humans space
debris moves at a breakneck speed of
17,500 miles per hour around our planet
just don't get in a way good old regular
stars keep their spherical shape because
their gigantic mass creates a powerful
gravitational field that pulls gas
toward the center well that's happening
their cores produce enough energy to
prevent gas from gathering too close to
the center the moon is not an ideal
sphere it's shaped more like an egg
because of the Earth's gravity inside
the constellation of the giraffe yup
seriously scientists discovered two
massive blue stars merging into one and
NASA's new Horizons spacecraft flew by
Pluto and gave us a closer look at what
it looks like scientists found a huge
floating mountain made of water ice and
some signs reading hey we're still a
planet discovered in 2017
Celt 9b is the hottest planet we
next time you're complaining about the
heat on a scorching summer day just
remember that temperatures on this
planet can reach 7800 degrees Fahrenheit
that's because Celt 9b orbits really
close to its star which is called Celt 9
this thing is way hotter and bigger than
our side experts believe that the giant
star might someday evaporate the entire
planet with its intense heat imagine
being able to travel at the speed of
light really short commute huh but think
of this you travel 186,000 miles in just
one second in other words it would take
you just a second to go around earth
seven and a half times it seems like an
awful waste of endless opportunities to
make neutron stars are the size of a
small city yet their mass is about 1.4
times that of the Sun they're formed
when massive stars die and their cores
collapse in on themselves the core
continues to press in on itself until
all the electrons are essentially
crushed together leaving only neutrons
this makes neutron stars one of the
densest objects in the universe draugar
a planet orbiting one of the neutron
stars is the tiniest exoplanet
astronomers have located so far it's
mass is only two times bigger than our
own moon the solar system is 4.6 billion
years old so old it's a senior solar
system scientists came to this
conclusion after they studied the oldest
material they managed to get ahold of
and by that I mean meteorites of course
in most sci-fi movies about space the
main character gets into an asteroid
belt and must dodge countless rocks that
threatened to damage their spacecraft
well sorry to disappoint but that's
nothing like the real thing
the only asteroid belt astronomers know
about is located between Mars and
Jupiter there are thousands of asteroids
in this region but they're so widely
spaced that the chance of collision is
next to nothing ah you just ruined it
sorry
humans have been exploring space for
over 60 years and the effort has
certainly
paid off all the planets in our solar
system have now been explored even the
dwarf planets of Pluto and cirrus most
of the exploration was done by NASA's
Voyager program which began in 1977
Voyager 1 and 2 collected information on
the planets their moons and their unique
system of rings and magnetic fields
space isn't supposed to be black there
are stars everywhere shouldn't they
light up everything around you don't see
stars wherever you look because some of
them haven't existed long enough for
their light to reach Earth even though
Venus is the hottest planet in our solar
system it still has snow but it's not
what you expect its nose metals and
rains acid not a great vacation spot the
existence of the moon was the result of
a clash scientists believe it was formed
from the debris of the earth and another
space object which was about the size of
Mars after they ran into each other
among the most spectacular looking space
objects are pulsars pulsars are a type
of neutron star they shoot out some of
their material almost at the speed of
light regular pulsars spin at a
reasonable speed between about 1/10 260
times per second but millisecond pulsars
can spin at an impressive 700 times a
second which is way too fast for the
human eye to even process as they spin
they emit a beam of radiation from their
axis that looks like the light from a
lighthouse now on earth people are used
to a beautiful sunset that's painted in
hues of orange red and yellow on Mars
however the normally pinkish red sky
turns blue as the Sun goes down under
the horizon it's because Mars has much
farther away from the Sun than Earth
making the sunlight less intense on
earth sound waves make air molecules
vibrate which is why we're able to hear
sound other planets and moons allow
sound to travel through mediums like
their atmospheres and oceans - in space
though it's said that there is no sound
since there aren't any molecules to
vibrate and deliver sound way
astronomers have found a massive
reservoir of water in space the largest
ever detected
too bad it's also the farthest 12
billion light-years away from us
the water vapor cloud holds 140 trillion
times as much water as all the Earth's
oceans combined once an astronaut snuck
a corned beef sandwich into space but
when he took it out in zero gravity the
thing started to fall apart the
astronaut was forced to hide the
delicacy away as soon as possible
because the crumbs could damage the
spacecraft equipment if you have not
become an astronaut like you wanted as a
kid out you still have the chance to
feel like one on the ground when you sit
in a car of a roller coaster and it
rises up to the top of the track and
then falls down abruptly you'll be in
freefall and feel like astronauts do
pretty much all the time a trip to the
nearest star apart from the Sun would
take you five million years on a
commercial airplane that's what I call a
long-haul fly it takes sunlight on
average eight minutes and 17 seconds to
travel all the way from the Sun to earth
why don't we humans explore space at the
speed of light well in short the laws of
physics make it impossible the smallest
ever observed distance between Earth and
Mars is 35 million miles the average
distance is around 140 million miles and
the greatest distance reaches 250
million miles which is 1,000 times the
distance from Earth to the Moon
you probably heard of methane gas a
byproduct of natural processes such as
volcanic activity and cows anyway this
gas is not only a part of the Martian
atmosphere but also the thing that
confuses astronomers to no end the thing
is that the volume of methane on Mars
keeps wavering and scientists just can't
figure out where it might be coming from
can there be cows on Mars Earth might
not be the only tectonic Li active
planet in the solar system
astronomers have spotted some landforms
looking like cliffs on Mercury if it's
so the tectonic activity could explain
the rapid
shrinking of the planet the average
distance between mercury and Earth is 48
million miles which is 10,000 times as
long as the distance between Los Angeles
and New York traveling at the speed of
light you'd spend almost four and a half
minutes to reach your destination you
can watch two official movie trailers
during this time behind the orbit of
Neptune lies the mysterious Kuiper belt
filled with massive icy objects the most
curious thing about this space formation
though is that scientists can explain
the pattern of its movement the only
explanation they have is that Neptune
might be hiding a ginormous planet from
our sight venus is the closest planet to
earth on average the distance between
the morning star and our planet is 25
million miles that's 1,000 times as long
as the distance around Earth still while
traveling at the speed of light you'd
need just two minutes before you land in
your spacecraft on Venus it might be
just enough time to munch on a big
burrito
mercury is a few billion years old in
scientists discovered some abnormalities
on the planet's surface showing that
it's getting smaller
after more research they found out that
mercury hasn't finished cooling down yet
the sky might appear pretty peaceful if
you look at it from Earth but the Milky
Way is headed for a massive collision
with the Andromeda galaxy 4 billion
years from now set your alarm these
galaxies will meet and neither will
survive stars will be scrambled and
constellations will be undone eventually
the two giants will merge and form an
elliptical galaxy but according to
National Geographic our Sun and earth
will survive thank goodness
[Music]